## Codified hashtags for Weather Warning on Twitter: an italian case study  

**Authors** :  Valentina Grasso, Alfonso Crisci

### Abstract 

During emergencies more and more messages are shared through social media platforms which are becoming a primary source of information for people and emergency managers. In this messages deluge the problem is to find relevant and trustable information bits. For Twitter the practice of hashtagging helps to associate messages to specific facts or events helping coordinate conversations. Proposal of codified hashtagging is emerging as a practical way to coordinate twitter messages during emergencies as a way to quickly identify relevant information. This works consider a case study of use of codified hashtags for weather  warning in Italy. From 3rd november to 9 december 2014, Tweets identified by the 3 codified hashtags #allertameteoTOS, #allertameteoLIG and #allertameteoPIE were downloaded through Twitter API, collecting a corpus of around 35.000 tweets. The hashtags were related to weather warning for three different italian regions, namely TOS for Tuscany, LIG for Liguria and PIE for Piedmont region. The analysis was aimed at highlighting the differences amongst the three regional codified hashtags. In particular hashtags were annotated as belonging to specific classes (emergency, geonames, media, public bodies, weather) evaluating the difference in co-occurring hashtags; also activity of public users and civil protection agents were analysed in order to evaluate their activity and engagement with communities.  

**keywords** : twitter,hashtag

### Draft paper

**Dataset and Methodology** 

The analysis of this work were based on a set of tweets collected by querying the Twitter Stream API for three regional codified hashtags for weather warning used in Italy:  #allertameteoTOS, #allertameteoLIG and #allertameteoPIE  from november 3th to december 2th 2014. 
Authors defined each collection of tweets as a Twitter “channel” of information. According to authors’ definition, a Twitter channel is a collection of tweets obtained by querying Twitter by single or multiple keys like hashtags, users or simple words combination. Twitter channel are the best way to monitor conversation about certain events combining the relevant hashtags and key users. The channels in this analysis were realized by searching twitter for three hashtags during a period of time where several severe events occurred. Channels consistency is as follows: #allertameteoLIG channels is the larger one with 29932 tweets, #allertameteoTOS is composed of  3165 tweets and #allertameteoPIE of 2461. 
Tweets of each channel were analyzed for stylistic features (hashtags, retweet, mentions and embedded URLs) with statistics for the whole period and during peak days, identified as days with highest twitter activity in each channel.
The analysis run on the channels are listed below: 
volumes of the channel, native tweets, edited RT and unedited RT. Retweet were calculated on the basis of json retweet_count, as delivered by twitter API. 
With limitation to those recovered, and distribution along the period; identification of peak days and correspondence with the event 
total number of hashtags in the channel during the whole period and in peak days. 
total number of active users for each channel;  
main popularity metrics for each stream: top tweet, most RT user; most RT tweet; most mentioned user; top hashtags.
number of links included in tweets, as average daily number compared to peak days; a measure of the informativeness of the channel.To better characterize the 3 channels and identifies the category of users most active on the channel and make comparison amongst the 3 analyzed, an annotation of users was carried out. The aim of annotation was to identify certain typology of users playing an important role during emergencies and thus verify their participation and active role around the codified hashtags.    
The whole set was annotated manually labeling users into one of identified five classes: Institution (governments and public agencies), Media (tv, radio, news and online media), Weather (weather forecasting services or weather enthusiast association), Volunteer_NGO (NGo active in the field of rescue and emergency management) and Other (users not belonging to any of the above). Evaluation of the more represented class of users, within the channel and during peak days, is useful to understand if institutions, NGO and media are supporting codified hashtags on Twitter for weather warning. 
A similar annotation was run on the set of hashtags used within each channel. Likewise for users the annotation was directed to identify the presence of certain class of hashtags that may emerge and gain useful insights for hashtags recommendation during weather warning.   
Hashtag annotation is used as a way to understand hashtagging habits during emergencies and understand which kind of information is labelled by users as relevant. (BIBLIO hashtag generation and semantics) All the hashtags used may help to understand if certain information are perceived as important label; it also get a handle on how people assign tags and priority during emergency; may also help to understand how this communities uses hashtags during emergencies. (possibili references: Posch et. al 2013; Yang et al. 2012; Laniado e Mika 2010; Ferragina et. al 2015). 
This approach is in our opinion important to better understand hashtagging practice during emergencies to improve monitoring and Twitter crowd sourcing during severe events. 
For each regional channels all hashtags were extracted and manually annotated as belonging to one or more of this classes: Emergency, expressions related to emergency warning, damages, severe weather impacts (like flood, mudslide; deads; …); Places (geographic names like region, county, city, village, suburb, river or point of interest, like the name of an airport or hospital); Institution, government, governors, municipality, mayor, public agencies; Media, words identifying media actors or products (TV-Shows; TV-News; newspapers); Weather, words related to meteorology and forecasting; Mobility: words related to street's name, motorway, railway and trains; Social media, words referred to social media domain ; Time: expression of temporal interval; Others (none of the above) . 
A sub class Outside_places was also introduced to identify name of places located outside the regional domain of the dominant codified hashtag of the channel. Due to Twitter text limitation, locations are sometimes expressed by way of acronyms, like FI for Florence; hashtags expressed by acronyms were not annotated as Places
Because hashtags cannot include space, some are constructed as combination of two or more words or like real sentences. In this work composed hashtags were annotated twofold, depending on the semantic domain of each lexical component. Because the hashtags annotation was intended to better understand to which semantic domain users assign relevance during emergencies hashtags composed by a combination of words report a twofold  annotation. For example a composed hashtag like #alluvionegenova obtained a double annotation, Emergency and Places.   
As many study recognizes (Bruns and Burgess 2011; Yang et. al, 2012; Lin et al, 2013 Zappavigna 2015; ) hashtag solve multiple function it serves as a bookmark of content and a symbol of community membership; in the case of adoption of codified hashtags the community function is supposed to be solved by this one whereas the other hashtags included in the tweets are supposed to mainly serves as bookmark of content. Thus have a classification of hashtags in categories related to weather and emergency and geonames it’s important to evaluate what kind of contents is posted on twitter and also to evaluate which other relevant hashtags arose from Twitter community. 
The analysis on the case studies of the three Twitter channel based on regional codified hashtag for weather warning has as main objective to highlight main differences in the three channels. In particular the analysis wants to assess which channel shows a more aware use of the codified hashtags by the Twitter community. To assess the level of awareness stylistic features are used together with popularity metrics to subset class of users and hashtags. 

**Meteorological background** 

The case studies is related to a period of 33 days, from november 3th 2014 to december 5th 2014. In the above mentioned period three main severe weather were identified in order to verify the correspondence of peak days of activity on Twitter with the weather regional configuration. 
During the period 3 events were selected as relevant: …. 



### Results

The dataset is composed of 35433 total tweets, included edited retweets to which Twitter assign an Identification number. As The vast majority 84% are related to the channel #allertameteoLIG, #allertameteoTOS represents the 9% of the whole set and #allertameteoPIE the 6%. This is understandable by the fact that in Liguria the flash flood occurred in a large city like Genoa (with a population of 880.000 with city and suburbs), and also because the flash flood of 15 November was not the second flood for Genoa in autumn 2014, so the attention was already very high. 
Table 1 shows the main features of the dataset: in each channel more than two third of dataset is made of retweets, in LIG RT reaching 80% of the total collected tweets. High reteewtting rate is recognized as a typical behaviour of disaster event on social media (Burgess …) due to people need to make information available. The LIG channels has also the highest ration between active users and total tweets, with a 5 ratio against 3.9 and 3,2 of TOS and PIE; where this more strong and varied participation is mainly related to peak days.
